Evening, sir.
Good evening, sir. Good evening, sir. Good evening, sir.
Mm, good.
Okay, so today's 23 till now people have joined.
So today's topic is going to be deep network deep learning,
part Q learning.
Okay, so
before I let open the PF of the book,
get the book
download,
Okay.
Okay. So you're able to see the book
that we are following till now.
So we have completed till chapter,
chapter, um, three, yeah, fourth.
Okay. And then we have got into chapter
uh, six.
That is for TD learning
and your Monte TD learning and Q learning.
I have not yet shared you the chapter PDF.
I'll share it to you. Okay,
so today's is basically on chapter seven.
This is for your, the basic foundation
for deep Q learning.
After that, we'll get into chapter eight.
That is, uh, exactly where we have to go
with the gradient.
Uh, gradient dis based learning for the Q
function or value function.
Okay? So we'll get into now chapter seven.
So these all things you already know,
we are getting into basically deep Q learning.
Okay? So we'll be okay.
Uh, it'll be chapter eight, not chapter seven.
Okay, this, this is the CARDPOOL game.
Let me increase the font size.
So this is the CARDPOOL game that we have done it yesterday.
So today we are going to do for the basic foundation
of deep Q learning.
So this, this plays onward NFQ.
Okay, NFQ means neural fitted Q learning.
So this is where we are going to start today.
So what is it? Uh, neural fitted Q learning.
So here is a diagram. So we are going to
use a, um, we are going to consider this problem now
as a supervised learning problem.
Okay? So in case of supervised learning, you are already
provided with your data set, which has the input
and output level.
So input, uh, features,
and then output level for our Q learning.
What are the input feature? What are the output feature?
Uh, what are the input feature
and what are the output values?
Yesterday this class you can remember I have done
so much time I have spent for explaining you
that NP digitized, okay?
So that is your state where, um, the state variable.
So your state variable was having four information in case
of your cart pole environment.
What are the four information?
The first one was your position of your pole.
Second one was your velocity. Velocity angle, sir.
Yeah, angle, then angle velocity four information. Okay?
This four becomes your input feature.
What is the output value?
Output value is whatever value function you want to predict.
It can be V function or it can be Q function.
Okay? Depending on your choice.
So as of now, we are not going to do with B function.
We are going to directly do with Q function.
So Q function is having a two input argument.
One is the state variable,
the other one is the action that you're taking.
Okay? So there are two ways to do this.
One way is you make these four input
features, okay?
Going to four neurons of your neural network
and another feature that is the action for Q function
state comma action.
So another feature is a few feature that is the action.
If you give feed this five feature, okay?
And you are pre, you are going to predict the output as
Q function of SMI.
Okay? So that is this diagram.
The first diagram state action
in value out.
Okay? So that means it is taking five features.
Fast forward audio state, look at this.
This is a state definition.
I will increase further so that you can read.
The fast four neurons are containing your fast four features
for the carpo, it is fusion velocity,
pole angle, and pole velocity.
Fifth neuron is going to take your action.
Action can be forward
or backward in case of car pole environment.
Given these five features, you're going to compute the,
you're going to predict the Q function four, these two
variable AS and A, okay?
The second architecture is you just provide the four neurons
for the features of your input
and this action is going
to be given on the output side with two neurons.
Action can be forward. It can be backward.
So you have two neurons for forward
and backward for each neuron.
What is the value that you are printed is QS I
that is here, okay?
This is the other architecture, okay?
So your output, uh, uh, neuron is going
to contain the action for forward
and action for backward for each and every action.
What is a value associated is QSMI that will be output.
That is the output coming out of this neural network
for each of the action.
Okay? So these are the two, uh, different architectures
for doing Q learning using deep Q network, okay?
And this ne neural network,
it can be normal feedforward neural network with
how many other layers you want.
You can configure or you can configure this as a
CNN convolution neural network.
Also, you can configure this Azure LSTM,
currenting NEUR network also.
Okay? However, starting from starting, we'll go ahead
with only normal feed
forward neur network.
Okay? So
before getting to coding, I will tell you
what are the theory involved in it.
So you already know that if you want
to use any neural network, you need to use the
optimization based on your cost function.
What is the cost function? I going to use it here.
The cost function is you require already pre-computed value
for your Q function and then you are going
to predict the Q function value.
So if you already require a computered value
of Q function in that case, you don't require
to do any training, right?
That is the main problem of application of neur network.
It is a supervised uh, environment.
It expects a supervised learning problem.
So if you have to provide a pre-computed value to your
cost function here, then what is the need of
doing deep queue learning?
That is a very basic problem
and we as of now, we'll not
try to give you the answer, we will assume
that we already have a pre-computed value
for our queues, okay?
As of now, we'll not give you the answer
after advancing another like three to four lectures.
Then we'll go ahead with that problem. Okay?
So for now, you know, you are assuming
that this pre computed Q function is already given
to you under that situation.
Can you train this, uh, neur network
to predict the Q function?
That is the problem that you're going to address
for next two lectures, okay?
So in that case, we have to use some kind of techniques
that we have learned from unit two lecture.
That is you are using uh, just uh,
yesterday's Class Q function that we have learned
using normal techniques, okay?
We are not using any neural network.
So using that, we'll have these values already pre computed,
given those pre computed value.
Now we can train this neural network
to predict those values.
Okay? So for that, this is going to be a cost function.
Your cost function is basically called means squared error.
That is from your machine learning knowledge,
which is a very general post function means squared error
means if you have,
let's say Y is your output variable, why hat is your
prediction from the neural network, okay?
So what you do your means square error, why I stands for
the I eight samples output value,
that is YIYI can be uh, scaler,
it can be vector, no problem.
Okay? So YI minus of Y had i
whole square and submission I is
to one two capital in capital N stands for total number
of samples, okay?
Divided by total number of analysis capital in that is beca,
that is becoming a means square error.
Okay? So that is what we are going to use it here.
That is QQ start.
S comm A means for the I sample. This is uh, three, okay?
So for the I sample, this is the value that you're predict,
uh, that you, that is your target value
and this, the second part is QS comma a comma three i,
this is your prediction, okay?
For the I sample, if you have been
provided with thousands of sample,
then you can use neural network so
that this prediction queue function, this value will be near
to this queue start of this.
Okay? Now
before I go ahead with anything else,
look at here in the language of this book,
sir, what
Is theta?
Theta is the weights of your neural network,
Okay? And
I is the I sample, is it,
Hmm, I sample.
So look at this language of this selecting what
to optimize, okay?
This is a decision point. Third decision that you to make.
Let's pretend for a second
that the cardpool environment is
a supervised learning problem.
Yesterday, whatever we have solved it.
We did not assume that it is a supervised.
We have assumed that if you have been
provided with the environment, you just need
to know the reward for reaching the final destination
and reward for making any mistake.
Like if you're falling into the pitholes, in
that case you are getting minus reward, okay?
Given only this two minimal information,
you can use those formula to find out your Q function value
for every state and every action pair.
In this case, we are assuming that
whatever you have computered yesterday is given to you.
Now, with that given setting, we have
to train a neural network for predicting
the neural network output should be near to the value
that we have completed yesterday.
Okay? So you may say that, okay, why should you do that?
Because yesterday we have already learned in a, uh,
unsupervised manner.
Why should I go with that?
The main, the main reason for that is for neural network.
The benefit is once you, um, have access
to some kind of already solved problem,
you can train a network.
That network if you,
after the training is offered, if you fit a similar problem
to be solved, okay?
In that case you just fit the problem, it'll give a um,
approximate answer, it'll not, you don't have to run
through all the formula
for your status, whatever we did, okay?
That is why we go for neural network.
So then let's say that you have a data set which states
as input value function as your level.
This is supervised problem. So level is a value function.
Now the value function can be Q function,
it can be V function also, we'll go ahead
with Q function now.
So look at the meaning of this each
and everything he has written, what is the meaning of lt?
Say an ideal objective
and value based deep reinforcement learning would be
to minimize the loss with respect to optimal
action value function.
Q start. So Q studies your optimal action. Hello, function.
Okay? So we have to minimize this loss.
Now what is the second point?
Is saying we want to have an estimate of QStar
and Q that tracks exactly the optimal function.
Third point, it is saying that what is QStar?
If we had a solid estimate of QStar,
we then could use a grid action with respect
to this estimate and get a near optimal behavior only if
we had that QStar.
So if we have already access to this QStar, it is saying
that we can use that QStar to find out our algorithm
like we have done it for last two last many classes, okay?
Obviously I'm not talking about having access to QStar,
I'm reading from the book itself is the author is saying,
I'm not talking about having access to QStar,
otherwise there is no need for learning.
I'm talking about access to sample
of QStar in some way.
So here is the one thing that I have to explain you that
I'm explaining this fourth point vividly.
That is if we know
how to compute QStar in that case, we don't need
to run this deep Q learning, okay?
What this deep Q learning is trying
to say is if you have access to some samples of QStar,
you don't have access to all the values of QStar,
but we have some samples of QStar in that case,
you can use those sample to train a neural network
that will produce the outputs which are near to QStar.
Okay? So for the example, I can tell you one thing that is,
it is like a black box.
You can consider the algorithm that is providing the values
of Q studies is a black box to you.
If you ask a question, he will give you some answer.
He will not tell you how the answers are.
You have how the answers are actually computed, okay?
So you have access to only heel by those heel.
Can you train a neural network that will try to give you
the mechanism of finding the answers?
That is what is what the fourth point is trying to say.
Okay? Another example I give you, like all
of you are using chat, GBT or Google, Germany.
Anything you ask any question it'll give you answer.
So it is basically you are asking something,
it is giving you some answer.
All those answers that you're getting is
basically becoming a sample.
I mean multiple sample.
You ask question, you get answer again, ask, question, get,
answer, all have multiple samples from the samples.
Can you find out what is the mechanism
of developing the answer?
That is what is our objective here in DQ learning. Okay?
So now you can understand the importance
of DQ learning, understood?
Now. So you just need to have access
to some optimal answers.
It is like reverse engineering, okay?
So if you ask chat GPT many questions,
you get many answers from the answers.
If you want to find out the mechanism
to generate new answer, that is called reverse engineering.
Okay? So for doing that,
everything is written after that here, okay?
Whatever I have said it to.
So your Q function is basically,
this is a expression for Q function.
This is the knowledge of your from day one itself, okay?
There is nothing new coming up in the
deep Q learning for this.
I'm not going to re-explain this.
Do you need to, do you want me to explain this again?
No need, right? Yes sir. No need not request, sir.
Now here, these things already, you know,
however, I'll just tell you so that when you go
through the book, you, you'll feel comfortable feel.
So we need to provide the value of QStar.
So for that we are going to use Monte Carlo TD learning
or Q learning, normal Q learning that you have done it
for last few days.
Okay? Here's a summary of that for Monte Carlo. What is it?
Basically Monte says that, so these are the total trajectory
to go to your, uh, desired destination, okay?
So you have to do multiple samples
to complete your total trajectory to go
to your ultimate target.
Then whatever value you are getting, use that value
of your reward to provide that value across all the states
so that every state is going to have the same value.
Okay? So that is called Monte Caldo for TD learning
what it is doing T learning technology, one step transition,
it'll not do the whole trajectory rehearsal,
it'll just take only one step transition.
It'll go to the next step.
T learning assumes
that the next state is having a better understanding about
the desired goal than my current state.
So whatever value he is having, it is a estimate of,
okay, what, hello, the next date is having currently I'm
located at this date, okay, I go to next date.
Whatever value this next state
knows about the whole environment, I will reuse those value
to update my knowledge about the environment.
That is what is called t learning
in step T Learning means it'll take any number
of transition in case of it'll
complete the whole trajectory in case of in step, the number
of steps will be less than the whole path, okay?
So it'll take some in number of steps into the future
and whatever states it is landing into, it'll use that value
to say, to update his knowledge on the previous states.
That is what is called TDN learning.
And what is TD Lambda learning?
TD Lambda learning is general version
of TDN learning in which every state
that you are visiting in TDN learning manner,
every state in the future, whatever states you're visiting,
you are not only updating those value
by the knowledge of the last state of the step
that you are visiting by equality hiding, not only doing
that, you multiply them with a lambda value
and the lambda value is having a decay of
value right from the last state that we're visiting.
Okay? So the Lambda helu for the last state
that you're visiting will be higher.
Then the Lambda helu for the previous state will be lesser,
lesser, lesser like that.
So let's say you have started your
journey from a current state.
You have taken in number of transitions into the future.
So you have now got into this state, okay?
Instead of dividing the value propagation back
to all the previous state, just by equal division
or we call it uniform weighting, instead of that,
we give a weight according to the lambda value,
Lambda will be higher in this state,
it'll be somewhat lesser in this state.
It'll be somewhat lesser in this state, somewhat less in
that, somewhat less in this state.
Okay? And then do the addition of all this
with the multiplication of Lambda.
That becomes your value function here, okay?
We have to use any one of these technique
to find out your QStar value.
After that, we are going to train this NA network.
So for, okay, so you already know what is called
SSA and what is called Q learning.
You know the difference. If you don't
know, I will just re and just re-explain that.
So SSA stands for state action reward State action.
S-A-R-S-A. Okay? S-A-R-S-A.
It stands for state action reward State action.
What does it mean? Basically,
whenever you are getting into the next state, you are going
to use the already available value of the next date.
Okay? So
that already available value is computed from the old
estimate of the whole environment.
Okay? Now for doing that,
there is a expression for doing that.
Write that expression because all this SARS
and Q learning will be used here repeatedly.
It is happening
is this thickness is going down,
no
thickness,
Sir. Use a darker shade.
Darker shade. This will be somewhere. Oh,
The one, the one beside it, sir.
On the left, yeah.
Uh, this one, yeah, better and it's thin. Yeah,
It used to be better.
Yeah, Let me
check if I can increase it here.
Ink color is dark only here. Obesity is a hundred percent
Colors.
I think it'll do this side.
Yeah. Dash solid.
Yeah, better. I used to.
Okay, lemme just go ahead with that.
Uh, Microsoft whiteboard.
Okay, so for normal Q learning you,
okay, so you are going to update the Q learning.
So we get a new estimate. So that is from the old estimate.
This plus alpha is a learning rate multiplied by
what will be here, what will be here
reward
for of the next date.
Okay, so you have a ion operator here, go for that
maximization operator over all the action for your
Q old estimate here is
T plus one.
So this is your at times step T, you have taken action A
at times step T, okay?
This is at times step T comma,
this at times step T plus one comma the action,
this actions that applied on this state
and ST plus one state, okay?
So this is your next state
and the action available under the next state,
whatever producing the maximum value, take
that particular action.
So that is basically your target. This is your target.
However, you have a Old estimate
of your ST plus one.
So this is becoming your error.
This part is called your target.
From here to here is your target,
and this is your current estimate.
The subtest between them is called the error.
With the error term. You are updating this, okay?
So this is for your Q learning
and this part is called normal Q learning.
If I go for ssa, SSA assumes that
you don't have access to all possible
actions in your next state.
You don't have access to all possible action.
So what you do is you take any random action, use
that random action to make your target.
So SSA is basically called online.
So this part is called off policy Q.
Learning off policy means
you have the luxury of storing the
Q function value for the next state
under all possible action.
So you need to maintain a memory to store your next date.
Uh, queue function value under all possible action.
However, if you don't have a memory,
you don't have the luxury to maintain that memory
for the next states queue function value
under all possible action.
In that case, you have to use a online version.
So off policy means you can run it in offline mode.
Offline mode means you have a large memory
which you can take the advantage of
that is called off policy key learning for on policy.
This rule becomes
the old estimate of this everything, even same.
Only thing is this, maximum maximization will not come the
reward plus SQ, old
S next date action minus your
old estimate,
okay?
This is called on policy.
On policy Q learning is also known as ssa
State Action reward State action, okay?
However, okay, so today's date is what?
Today's date is seven January.
Okay? So however, this is, we are using
for operating our queue function,
but what about our normal?
Uh,
our normal expression
before coming into Q Learning, if you remember that
value function or state ST is going to be,
This is your new
plus what you had previously,
the submission, right?
You have to uh, okay,
it was basically called mm.
There are two things you need to do. One is your policy.
So some of her all the action, some
of her all the next date, right?
So this will be PI A
given S multiplied by
reward plus value function
for the next state, right?
That is your S dash. Yeah.
So it'll be S dust, okay?
That is what we used to run right all the time.
It was not old. We used to write as a vpi.
This will not be new. This term will not be there.
This was our uh, this was our normal
expression before we have got into you need to, right?
So it is also called as what?
Expectation Of
Expectation of we have forgotten action
reward plus of next date.
That is X task.
This is expectation over all the
actions available under this policy, okay?
This is called billman equation. Fine.
So look at for doing this expectation,
this will be the exact formula for doing
because expectation means some of our all possible
action, okay?
There is a transition priority here. Yeah, why you of this?
So from S, this will multiplied by S Ds,
given that you are getting into this,
this will multiplication, okay?
So then I forgot this. This term will be remaining. Okay?
So probability of s ds given A is the current state
and A is the action you have taken at current instead
this multiplied by this.
So this term is basically called expectation, okay?
However, for Q learning also we have the same
equation for Q learning.
So this, I'm rerunning
because this will be used again in this deep Q
learning for Q learning.
Mm-hmm Q learning.
This will be the same thing
that we have to write it over here.
That is some over
all the actions under the
policy bias, okay?
Then some of all the next states this.
So you have pi, A UNS multipli
by probability of yes desk given
currently a state
and is action, it will be multiplied by reward
of the next date plus
what should we write it here?
Value of the next date, okay,
for Q function, now for Q function.
For Q function, this part will not be there.
So this submission will not be there. Why?
Because I have already assumed that
at the state office I am committed to take action A for
that I want to find out what is the value
for taking this pair A.
So this term will not be there, so it'll be just sum over
next states probability of then s comm,
a reward plus value function available at
here, okay?
Value function available at the next state.
Understood. So for this only,
I'm explaining why we are getting this,
this maximization operation here, okay?
This maximization, I'm explaining that
because we are going to use them heavily here.
So this can also be written like this,
this part, this part I'm writing, it'll remain
as it is probably of S dash given S from a A
multiplied by V word plus what is V of A?
What is the relation between value function and Q function?
Can you tell me
what is the relation between value function and Q function?
So V of A,
what is the relation
View?
Hmm, Max of Q, let's say, is it?
Yeah, so V of S
will be,
let me write it
Or sum submiss of uh hmm.
By submission of by office or office,
Yes.
Submission of
by a given is multiplied by Q,
is comma A, okay?
Having committed to a particular action, you
know already this from this you can find out the V of this.
So finding out that you need to
do the summation over the probability
of choosing this particular action.
Once you have chosen this action,
then you can use the PR value.
That is SI, okay?
Now this is a conditional probability that A is chosen given
that you are into a state.
If A is chosen, then you have S-I-A-P-R use this value
to find out this is the normal case.
However, for optimal,
we start office, okay?
We start office for optimal case, at least
this is for normal policy.
This happens for normal policy, for optimal policy.
Optimal policy means there is a particular policy
which produces the value for each
and every state higher than any other policy.
That is called optimal. So for optimal case,
this submission will not be there.
It'll be maximization over A
for QS, comm A,
the particular scom, a PR value,
which produces the highest value among all the
four possible action.
Choose that. So this for optimal, so for Q star
and this thing, so this will remain valid,
this part will remain valid.
Okay? Now here you can just replace this relation
between Q and V.
So this will become true for
QStar, that is optimal Q function.
We are going to learn optimal Q function
by using deep Q learning, okay?
That's why I'm retelling everything.
The QStar is comma A is going to be,
this will remain as it is.
This R plus here, this is maximization
over a four QStar
SA.
This is what is the formula for Q learning, okay?
I mean this is the formula for evaluating Q function.
Okay? Now just
whatever we are learning for q learning, you look at,
we are using this formula for off policy,
we're using this formula.
We have not written this submission over all possible next
steps that you can visit, okay?
Look at here we are using this formula.
So that is what basically these all method mechanisms are
one kind of approximation to learn the exact value.
So this is the exact value learning thing
to learn the exact, hello,
he would hit two, learn the optimal.
You cannot assume that you have already
reached the optimal thing
and then you are just changing the a.
I mean you are just changing the action.
You are trying to find out the key studies for all possible.
You cannot do that. So this is the exact method
of learning Q, hello?
And this is the approximate method of learning Q, this part.
This part is what? Approximate method of learning. Okay?
So this maximize and term, why is it appearing?
It requires this understanding,
which I have explained to you, okay?
What I have not told you till now is how, this is
how this is coming to be
QStar, QStar of
a in case of star.
Basically we want to find out the optimal,
so we are writing new value of Q, okay?
So for that we are using some kind of
optimization technique that we start from any old estimate.
We use that old estimate to get a refined estimate here.
This plus learning rate multiplied by this part,
we are not taking this part.
Okay? Why you're not taking, can you tell me
minus?
So this part,
so you might think that there are a lot of fallacy.
So to overcome the fallacy, we instead of
taking this as a QStar here, QStar here, QStar here.
In any case, these are, these values are same. So why?
What is is it? It is going to fallacy.
So that is why we are writing by the help of indexing.
The indexing is nothing
but the defined values are
with the defined expression is given here.
This one new, we sort of start, we are new.
Here is the old estimate.
This is the state at time T,
after taking a transition, I'm going
to state at the time t plus one
and that is how I'm writing, okay?
I I, I have asked you one question. Can you tell me
here, I am not writing
this, this thing.
I am not writing, not writing.
Can you tell me why this submission is
over this test?
Can you tell me why?
So in neural network,
we are providing the state input states, no sir.
So in last it's calculated by the actions.
No, we're not in network.
Now I have not gotten into neur this, I'm using it
for the last few classes, right?
This expression or I have not gotten into neural
network still I'm writing.
My question is why I'm not writing the summation of all the
is DS given SI probability.
So since we don't have the transition probabilities
as it is a model free uh, environment,
Yes, you are right, you are right.
So that is the reason we don't have any knowledge
about our environment.
So we cannot assume this thing.
So for that, the approximation method is
you just take one single transition state.
You think that the next state is having a better
knowledge about environment.
You use those value. So this is your next state value.
You think that is better value? So you are having a error.
That error will come up with this abstraction alone.
Whatever error you are making that error, just add it up
by multiplying your learning rate with your old estimate,
you get afin estimate, okay?
That is the physical meaning understood.
So you are like, I suppose you have lost,
you don't have a GPS and uh, you are lost into a jungle.
So how do you come out of the jungle?
Now you take random steps
and every step you have taken, you just mark your previous,
uh, let's say you have a chalk in your hand.
You are marking a trees that you have already visited.
So by that way you take one single transition
and think that, that the next transition will be having a
better knowledge about your exit path.
However, in order to not get into a loop, you are making a
marking on your previous visited trees.
The same thing is being used here. Okay?
So now deep Q learning, what we are going
to do is in deep Q learning, you are not going
to use this formula in deep Q learning.
What deep Q learning expects is you are going to
update your neural network parameter.
So you already know for any kind of neural network, uh,
like linear regulation
or logistic regression for any kind of,
let's say you are doing a linear regression,
what is a problem?
Your problem is to estimate the value of Y.
So there is x, there is a Y, these are the features.
All these features, there is a particular single value.
Let's say its single value.
So you have first sample, you have second sample,
you have so many features.
Let's say you have five fe four features alone.
You have a single value predicting.
So your data set is basically your Y hat
is basically a function of neural network, okay?
Function of XX comma theta.
Theta means your weight of the neural network. Okay?
So you write it there as a
theta transpose X, okay?
So your Y hat for the I sample,
this is Y hat I, my handwriting is not gonna,
lemme write it fully.
This is a ula.
So for the
I sample, you have y super scripted
by IY hat, okay?
This is going to be three transpose
XI this, XI.
This is superscript stands
for the I sample sample number one, two like that.
So what is your loss function?
The loss function is called means squared error.
That is basically YI
minus of Y hat I for the higher sample.
Take this difference.
Do the square, do sum of square for all the samples,
you have a number of samples.
This divided by capital N, okay?
This is also known as expectation
over this.
Do every submission by equal weight one by end,
that means you're doing expectation four, expectation
of your Y minus Y hat horse pad.
This expectation has happened over all the samples, right?
So it is basically this expectation over
theta index, theta index, okay?
So this, if you write it,
you are going to use a similar kind of structure.
That's why I'm rewriting everything,
which you already know actually.
So this is your cost function.
This will boil down to YI.
These values are already given to you by your dataset.
This minus software theta transfers XI
for the I sample take this square difference
sum I is equal to one two N.
This divided by capital N. Okay? This part.
Now what is the derivative of this derivative
with respect to theta?
This is called your MSC. Okay? Means square data.
What is the derivative of this? Der
YI minus x two YI minus X.
Yeah. So there with two N here, okay?
Is two NYI minus of
this thing one time?
Yes, This is one
time, this is two, there is two N
this two and two will cancel.
Okay? So now this part alone.
Now what is the derivative
of this xai?
Yeah, it'll be xai alone. Okay? This is a derivative.
Now what you are learning,
learning rule is becoming theta is a neur network weight
for the, let's say it is T, the iation
at T plus one iteration the weight are getting set from
T iation minus this
of your MSC.
Okay? That is how we do all the time.
This is nothing but theta add their
tation minus or this quantity.
What is this quantity? This is your loss function, okay?
Your loss function is a square value of this. Okay?
So it is basically YI minus
it transpose XI multiplied
by x, I
divided by A, this I submission
I is 1, 2, 1, okay?
That is how we'll, uh, set the learning rule.
In our case of this thing, uh, Q learning, we have a Q star
that is already given to you.
We are now going to estimate A, so for
that we have a loss function,
but the higher sample, that loss function is basically what
you have it Q star.
SAS is what is your, uh,
input that you're providing.
Okay? This minus of Q, this is
what is your prediction.
SA which is parameter as by your three.
This thing also that is a loss function.
This is going to happen for each
and every state and action pair.
So you can consider under a single state
and action, you are having a particular value here.
You are going to get some approximate value of this.
So this summation is going to happen over all possible,
just like that we have written here, Liz.
This is going to be expectation over
thing, like we have written it here.
Okay? So this expectation, why?
Because it is this summation.
Now, for this also we need to take a derivative of this.
It is delta l delta theta, which
will reduce it to one time of this thing, okay?
That is Q star S comma a minus
Q of this thing.
This multiplied by
whatever total number of samples you have.
This lu acid is this multiplied by the gradient of this.
You can find out this to become,
but the gradient of this thing,
this is a constant value coming from the dataset.
What this, this is becoming.
So the gradient here is negative of gradient,
gradient of QS one B.
Come on data.
This is multiplication,
this is unknown to us.
Now we have to solve this.
So for this solution we have approximate method.
That approximate method is basically
here it is coming back again, okay?
This is your expectation,
and
for this we have a, we have to use uh,
neural network to that do that, okay?
So for that they have said that no need
to use this gradient, we just use the formulate.
So yeah, yeah.
Instead of using this gradient of this,
we just use this value queue of this thing value.
So these are various approximal
and tricks they have applied.
So next class I will show you by the example
of a Python notebook.
Okay?
It'll be two in, in the starting square, two square
Have this tool, will this tool get canceled each other
like we have done it?
Yes. Here it'll be you divided by twice then
because it is a expectation I have not written.
So I, it'll be twice in here.
This two times cancel out each other.
Yes, sure. Okay.
Okay. Soda's class is ending here.
Sir, I have a question. This is DQ learning.
Sir, can you go back to the uh, textbook?
Mm-hmm. Sir, can you go to the um, fourth edition point, uh,
the TD learning lambda graphs are there, right?
Yeah. This one here, uh, can you, uh,
again explain in brief sir?
Uh, I have a slight confusion.
Okay. It is basically this thing's already, you know,
okay, I'm just telling this lambda.
Yes sir, that's enough. Okay.
So if you use TDN learning, so you are having the value
for the end step in the future,
normal TDG learning means you just take one
step and take that value.
Instead of that you go ahead into end step into the future
and take those values after taking that value, okay?
You have to assign the value for the previous states also
that you have come across already.
So what it is doing is basically, uh, it is multiplying
with a, uh, decaying rate called lambda.
This lambda value will be higher in this state.
That is a last state you visited before.
That state will be getting a lesser value of lambda and then
before that will be lesser like that,
some waiting they're doing
and then there using this, uh,
this state value.
So for every state you are assuming some
value available to here, right?
Whatever value is available to the last state
that you're visiting in your path, all
of them are already having some values from
the previous estimate.
Multiply that with this lambda decaying rate
and then do the submission, assign that value to your
current, uh, state for whom you do not know the value.
These values you are estimating by the help of next steps
that we're going to visit in the path.
Okay, sir? Lambda learning.
Okay sir, thank you. Okay, so you the,
you are into deep Q learning chapter now.
I will, uh, I will send you the, this chapter seven.
This chapter eight, yeah, chapter eight, PDF. Okay.
White board also sir,
Whiteboard dial down.
Actually I do not get time on my, once my class is over,
I'll send you by tomorrow, okay?
Yeah, please. Tomorrow, another class after that.
Yes sir. Okay.
So we can end of the class now?
Yeah, sure sir. Thank you sir. Goodnight, sir.
So I hope I'm not putting too much of stuff onto your,
like I'm giving a very small, small step, right?
Yes. Formula we need to remember actually, yes sir.
I write when I'm writing and then I am able to identify,
but after a few days
You write on yourself, uh, yeah.
Uh, so that you can understand the relation
between two terms that you're writing.
Yes. Yes. Okay.
Actually mathematics is a language of nature that we need
to understand which our education system
has completely trampled down.
Would they have made it mathematics
to be remembering stuff? It is not that case.
Okay? Yeah, sure, sir.
Okay. Thanks a lot. Goodnight.
Yeah, thank you sir. Goodnight. Thank you, sir.
Thank you sir. Thank you sir. Thank you sir. You sir.
Goodnight.